

This is a simple way of quickly examining and displaying multi-dimensional data.

This technique should useful in the early stages of analysis when you're trying to get and understanding of the data,

for  example: Finding some pattern or relationship between different factors or variables. 

As the name suggests hierarchical clustering creates a hierarchy of clusters.

Clustering organizes data points that are close into groups. 

Questions which arises in general are : 

"How do we define close?"
"How do we group things?"
"How do we interpret the grouping?" 

Cluster analysis is a very important topic in data analysis..

To get an Idea about the Clustering , 
consider the random points which we generated. We'll use them to demonstrate hierarchical clustering in this
lesson. 
We'll do this in several steps, but first we have to clarify our terms and concepts


Hierarchical clustering is an agglomerative or bottom-up, approach.

Each observation starts in its own cluster, and pairs of clusters are merged as one moves up the hierarchy.

Which means that we'll find the closest two points and put them together in one cluster, then find the next closest pair 
in the updated picture, and so forth. 

We'll repeat this process until we reach a reasonable stopping place.

Note the word "reasonable". 

There's a lot of flexibility in this field and how you perform your analysis depends on your problem. 

One can decide to stop clustering either when the clusters are too far apart to be merged (distance criterion) or
when there is a sufficiently small number of clusters (number criterion)."


there are several ways to measure distance or similarity. 
I) continuous measures:
           a) Euclidean distance
           b) correlation similarity
II) Binary Measure:
           a) Manhattan distance




Euclidean distance : 

Given two points on a plane, (x1,y1) and (x2,y2), 
the Euclidean distance is the square root of the sums of the squares of the distances between the
two x-coordinates (x1-x2) and the two y-coordinates (y1-y2).

This might appears like probably, as an application of the Pythagorean theorem 
which yields the length of the hypotenuse of a right triangle.

Euclidean distance is distance "as the crow flies". 
Many applications, however, can't realistically use crow-flying distance.
Cars, for instance, have to follow roads.

In this case, we can use Manhattan or city block distance (also known as a taxicab metric).
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Taxicab_geometry


















